SOURCE: https://ecode360.com/15252460
RETRIEVED: 2026-10-04 09:12 UTC
NOTE: research copy, not supplied corpus (manifest D032, Hoboken Code Chapter 155 Rent Control). Excerpt: § 155-2 only, copied verbatim from a single page read in a browser.

§ 155-2
Limitation of applicability.

This chapter shall apply to all dwelling units as defined in § 155-1 above, except that the following shall be exempt:A. Motels and hotels.B. Newly constructed dwellings which are rented for the first time. After the first rental, such dwellings shall be exempt for this initial rent or lease agreement, but all subsequent rents shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. In order to qualify for the exemption, the newly constructed dwelling must be registered by an applicant, on forms provided by the Rent Regulation Officer, with said Officer before the first rental for said dwelling.C. Industrial property.D. Nonresidential and commercial property. If the dwelling has an apartment unit(s), plus a commercial unit(s), the apartment unit(s) is covered by this chapter, but the commercial unit(s) is exempt.E. Housing provided for students by a school, college or similar institution which owns or controls that housing.F. Housing owned and operated by other government agencies, such as the state or federal government.G. A building completely vacant on or before and since January 1, 1984, provided that said building did not become vacant through unlawful means which can be attributed to the applicant for this exemption. In order to qualify for this exemption, the building vacant since January 1, 1984, must be registered by an applicant with the Rent Regulation Officer, on forms provided by said Officer, before the renting of dwelling units within the vacant building. After the first rental, such dwelling units shall be exempt from initial rent or lease agreement, but all subsequent rents shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.H. [1]In accordance with N.J.S.A. 2A:42-84.1 et seq., the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to multiple dwellings, as defined in the statute, constructed after June 25, 1987, for a period not to exceed the period of amortization of any initial mortgage loan obtained for the multiple dwelling or for 30 years following completion of construction, whichever is less. In the event that there is no initial mortgage financing, the period of exemption from this chapter shall be 30 years. This exemption only applies where a landlord complied with all requirements contained in N.J.S.A. 2A:42-84.1 et seq., including but not limited to notice to the Construction Code Official at least 30 days before a certificate of occupancy is issued and notification to tenants by way of a provision in their lease. The owner shall, at least 30 days prior to the expiration of the exemption period as per N.J.S.A. 2A:42-84.1, file with the Rent Leveling and Stabilization Office a notice of expiration of the exemption period for the multiple dwelling. The owner must then register the property as per § 155-30, and the property shall be subject to the rent leveling and stabilization provisions of this chapter. The last rental amount charged prior to the expiration of the exemption period shall be established as the base rent. Any dispute as to the exemption status of the property under this section shall be determined by the Rent Regulation Officer, subject to an appeal to the Rent Leveling and Stabilization Board.[Added 2-1-2023 by Ord. No. B-532][1]Editor's Note: Former Subsection H, Limitation of applicability, added 12-21-1988 by Ord. No. P-27, was repealed 2-15-1989 by Ord. No. P-42.
